# About the Movie Data
| Field Name          | Description                                                                                           | Type   |
|---------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| Title               | Movie title.                                                                                          | Object |
| Overview            | Summary of the movie's plot.                                                                         | Object |
| Release Date        | Release date of the movie.                                                                            | Object |
| Vote Average        | Average rating given by users.                                                                        | float  |
| Vote Count          | Number of votes received by the movie.                                                                | int    |
| Runtime             | Duration of the movie in minutes.                                                                     | int    |
| Budget              | Budget allocated for the movie.                                                                      | int    |
| Revenue             | Revenue generated by the movie.                                                                      | int    |
| Popularity          | Popularity score of the movie.                                                                       | float  |
| Production Countries| Countries where the movie was produced.                                                              | Object |
| Production Companies| Production companies involved in making the movie.                                                   | Object |
| Genres              | Genres of the movie (e.g., Action, Drama, Science Fiction).                                          | Object |
* The data is collected using themoviedb's API endpoint
* Refer to this link: https://developer.themoviedb.org/reference/intro/getting-started for the API documentation
* The data consists of the top 500 US-affiliated movies of each year, ranging from 2010 to 2022, and it is collected based on the vote counts from themoviedb.

## Goal of the project
* Collect movie data from themoviedb's API endpoint 
* Perform data cleaning and feature engineering on the data
* Creating an interactive multi-page PowerBI dashboard to visualize the data
  
# Refer below for the all the steps taken:
## Step 1: Collecting data from the API endpoint 
* Refer to **data_collection_api.ipynb** for the detailed steps
### Python Script Overview: 
* The script uses the provided API key for authentication. (You can get an API key for free after registering an account at themoviesdb)
* It retrieves movie details, including title, overview, release date, vote average, vote count, runtime, budget, revenue, popularity, production countries, production companies, and genres.
* Data is collected based on vote counts, sorted in descending order.
* The script ensures a maximum of 500 movies per year and writes the information to a CSV file.

### Usage:
* Replace the 'API KEY' with your actual themoviedb API key.
* Set the desired start and end years for data collection.
* The script writes collected data to a CSV file format

### Libraries Used:
* csv: Module for reading and writing CSV files.
* requests: Module for sending HTTP requests.

### Note:
* themoviesdb also offers data for TV shows. Read the documentation if that interests you
## Step 2: Data cleaning and feature engineering
* Refer to **feature_engineering.ipynb** for the detailed steps
### Notebook Overview 
* Removing rows with values of 0
* Creating new columns: profits, ROI, year, month, day
* Convert columns to the appropriate data types
* One-hot-encode the genres column (This will be utilized in the PowerBI dashboard later on to create a slicer to filter by movie genre, providing users with the ability to explore and analyze the dataset based on different combinations genres.)

## Step 3: Load data into PowerBI and Create an interactive dashboard with multi-pages
* Load the cleaned.csv file into PowerBI and create the dashboard
  
## Dashboard Overview: The dashboard contains 4 pages
* **Main Page**: A comprehensive overview of key metrics and trends.
* **Graphs**: Visual representations of data trends, enabling in-depth analysis.
* **Movie Details**: Dive into specifics with detailed information about each movie.
* **Key Influencers**: Discover the factors influencing key aspects.

### Dashboard Features:
* Sidebar Navigation: A user-friendly sidebar with buttons for easy page navigation.
* Bookmarks: Seamlessly toggle between different states, such as showing or hiding the sidebar.
* Field Parameters: Effortlessly filter visuals based on different fields, such as top movies by budget, popularity, and more.
* Simple Slicers: Easily filter movies by release date and genres.
* Added Drillthrough capability for the movie details
* Added a key influencers tools to analyze factors that have the most impact on a particular outcome.

### Accessing the Dashboard:
To explore the dashboard, download and open the PowerBI Desktop app, then load the movie_viz.pbix file.
* IMPORTANT NOTE: You need to download the PowerBI Desktop in order to open the pbix file

## Refer to the images below for a detailed showcase of the PowerBI dashboard






